Scavengers are animals that consume dead organisms that have died
from causes other than predation. While scavenging generally
refers to carnivores feeding on carrion, it is also a herbivorous
feeding behavior. Scavengers play an important role in the ecosystem
by consuming dead animal and plant material. Decomposers and
detritivores complete this process, by consuming the remains left
by scavengers.

Scavengers aid in overcoming fluctuations of food resources in the
environment. The process and rate of scavenging is affected by
both biotic and abiotic factors, such as carcass size, habitat,
temperature, and seasons.

Obligate scavenging is rare among vertebrates, due to the difficulty
of finding enough carrion without expending too much energy.

Well-known invertebrate scavengers of animal material include burying
beetles and blowflies, which are obligate scavengers, and yellowjackets.
Fly larvae are also common scavengers for organic materials at the bottom
of freshwater bodies. For example, Tokunagayusurika akamusi is a species
of midge fly whose larvae live as obligate scavengers at the bottom of
lakes and whose adults almost never feed and only live up to a few weeks.

Most scavenging animals are facultative scavengers that gain most of
their food through other methods, especially predation. Many large
carnivores that hunt regularly, such as hyenas and jackals, but also
animals rarely thought of as scavengers, such as African lions, leopards,
and wolves will scavenge if given the chance. They may also use their
size and ferocity to intimidate the original hunters (the cheetah is a
notable victim, rather than a perpetrator). Almost all scavengers
above insect size are predators and will hunt if not enough carrion
is available, as few ecosystems provide enough dead animals year-round
to keep its scavengers fed on that alone. Scavenging wild dogs and crows
frequently exploit roadkill.

Scavengers of dead plant material include termites that build nests
in grasslands and then collect dead plant material for consumption
within the nest. The interaction between scavenging animals and humans
is seen today most commonly in suburban settings with animals such
as opossums, polecats and raccoons. In some African towns and villages,
scavenging from hyenas is also common.

In the prehistoric eras, the species Tyrannosaurus rex may have been
an apex predator, preying upon hadrosaurs, ceratopsians, and possibly
juvenile sauropods, although some experts have suggested the dinosaur
was primarily a scavenger. The debate about whether Tyrannosaurus
was an apex predator or scavenger was among the longest ongoing
feuds in paleontology; however, most scientists now agree that
Tyrannosaurus was an opportunistic carnivore, acting mostly as a
predator but scavenging when it could. Recent research also shows
that while an adult Tyrannosaurus rex would energetically gain little
though scavenging, smaller theropods of approximately 500 kg (1,100 lb)
may have potentially gained levels similar to that of hyenas, though
not enough for them to rely on scavenging. There are also an info that
Otodus megalodon, Ceratosaurus, Andrewsarchus and some more prehistoric
animals were scavengers. Animals which consume feces, such as dung
beetles, are referred to as coprovores. Animals that collect small
particles of dead organic material of both animal and plant origin are
referred to as detritivores.
